The next thing we would want to discuss is the role of a classloader in Java all Java programs are made
up of classes.
There are three different types of classes at a high level.
One is the classes that you write.
As a programmer the second ones are the classes that are in the frameworks that you use.
For example spring scrouge they come up with their own set of classes.
And the third things are the classes with the job we don't directly provides the system classes the
collection classes and things like that.
These are the different kinds of classes and you need something to load this up when you are running
the java program.
So when I'm planning a job program I need to load all these classes Java needs to find a specific class
when I use it in the program.
So who does that.
That's basically the class load the class loader finds classes for us.
There are three different kinds of class loaders based on where they would search for class.
You can think of classloader as something which searches the classes for us and the types of classloader
are based on where they would search for that particular class the three different types of classloader
system extension and bootstrap system classloader extension classloader and the bootstrap classloader
we would all use this thing called class.
But we would go and set a specific jar in the class.
But things like that the system classloader is responsible for loading classes from classpath.
So whenever you delegate finding a class to a system classloader the way it does is search it searches
inside all the jobs or all the folders which I mentioned in the class but the extension classloader
searches inside the extension directory.
If you look at all Jerry JDK they have this directory called XTi.
You had this XTi Al-Oraibi and the Geordie library so you can see them in here.
Jerry XTi lib the extension classloader looks in those folders for any jobs artlessness bootstrap classloader
is the ones which load all the Jawa core files.
Typically the system classloader is the one which will load all the things on the class but typically
all the things in the jar in your wire those are the things which are loaded by user system classloader
the extension classloader is basically where you are extending the existing Java and providing additional
libraries.
So that basically Library folders like Jerry XTi Ellie Ellaby and things like that show that you extension
classloader and the bootstrap classloader is basically your base Java classes.
So now I want to find a class what is the order in which these classloader are run would bootstrap run
first.
Or would system classloader on first order in which classes are loaded.
It would start with the system classloader.
So when I want to find a class that Jerry asked the system classloader do you have this class with you.
So this system classloader would search the class but Aunty's whether there is a class available with
it or I don't have it then it would go to the extension class loader does it find it here based on whether
it finds it or not it would go to the bootstrap class loader if it still does not find declasse with
the bootstrap classloader it would throw a familiar exception class not found exception.
So basically if it followed the system class the class would be written as it goes to the exigeant classloader
if it does not find it in the extension classloader then it would go to the bootstrap class load that
the order in which the class orders are executed.
To summarize class loaders are the things that load all the java classes for us and whenever the Geordie
wants to find a class it goes to these.
So it would go to the classloader in the order of system extension and bootstrap.